

# Vocabulary

```
source > build > test > production
```
### source
Checkin. VCS

### build
Unit tests, code metrics (TODO-; code climate?)

### Test
Integration with other tests


## Diffenet types of automated processes

+ CI - continuious integration. Just building things and unit tests in an automated manner.
+ CD - continuious delivery. Taking the artifact and _moving_ it to new engironments. Maybe automated, maybe
+ Contin deployment - bringing into production with little impact to customers. (eg Blue/Green deployment)

# Orchestrating with codePipeline

**what is it?** Based on internal pipeline tool at amazon.

It's automated, but can be stopped

Can do a few things
+ source - from github, ects
  + pulls from VCS and sources it to s3 as **artifact**
+ build - can build sequentially 
  + trigger! s3 triggers the vcs.
+ deploy - ebs elastic beanstalk ie.

**Solving automation problems** - apparently CodeBuild can do this.

# Deploying an application.

**AWS CodeDeplay** is the name of the game.
+ Handles the complexity of updating applications (interesting....how?)
+ Oh they do blue/green deploy. Yay.

### Workflow of CodeDeploy
Revision sent > spec file + deployment config for teplayment > Deployed as an instance to a deployment group

**Deployment groups** _is_ what is used for diff deployment environments. (Dev/QA/Blue-green deployment)

### setup AWS CodeDeploy Instance.
+ Instance needs an Iam profile. And other stuff.

### setup deployment groups
Group by
+ EC2 tags

#### Lifecycle Events
+ ApplicationStop
+ BeforeInstall
+ AfterInstall
+ ApplicationStart
+ ValidateService.


# Checklist
+ [ ] Shold we source from github/codecommit and have artifact builds to s3?
+ [ ] use code pipeline to start sourcing the code (maybe testing? need to find more..)
